Yes. It absolutely should, and if it doesn’t, you’ll feel the conversion pain immediately.

But it has to be done deliberately, not “magically”.

Let me give you the clean, correct way to do it, and then the shortcuts you should avoid.

⸻

The Principle (non-negotiable)

When someone upgrades or logs in:

Their work must follow them.

If they see a blank builder after paying, that’s a trust break. That’s the moment people think “oh… this is just another tool.”

So: preview → promote → continue is the mental model.

⸻

The Correct Mechanism: Preview Promotion

During guest mode

When the preview is created, the backend returns:

{
  "previewId": "prev_abc123",
  "cards": [...],
  "source": { "type": "url", "value": "https://..." },
  "tier": "short"
}

Key rule:
	•	The preview is persisted server-side, not just in local state.
	•	TTL it if you want (eg 24–72 hours), but don’t rely on localStorage alone.

⸻

When the user clicks a gated action

Example: “Generate AI images” or “Upgrade to Medium Experience”

You do not run the full pipeline yet.

Instead you:
	1.	Open login / signup
	2.	Store previewId in:
	•	URL param (?resumePreview=prev_abc123)
	•	or a short-lived cookie

⸻

After login (this is the crucial bit)

On successful auth:

Option A (cleanest UX)
	•	Redirect to:

/transformations?resumePreview=prev_abc123



The authenticated TransformationsPage:
	1.	Detects resumePreview
	2.	Calls:

POST /api/transformations/from-preview


	3.	Backend:
	•	Attaches preview to the user
	•	Creates a full transformation record
	•	Rehydrates cards + edits
	4.	Page loads with their cards already there

To the user, it feels seamless.

⸻

Option B (inline continuation)

Stay on the same page, but behind the scenes:
	•	Promote preview → full transformation
	•	Swap APIs
	•	Unlock premium tools

This is harder to get right and easier to break.
I’d only do this later.

⸻

What gets transferred (be explicit)

At minimum:
	•	Cards (order, text edits, deletions)
	•	Experience title
	•	Source metadata (URL/doc)
	•	Tier = short → medium/long

Optionally:
	•	Theme choices
	•	Tone sliders
	•	Chosen narrative structure

Do not regenerate anything unless the user explicitly asks.

⸻

What NOT to do (these cause rage-quits)

❌ Re-run extraction after login
❌ “Start fresh” full transformation
❌ Force the user to paste the URL again
❌ Say “Your preview is temporary” without carrying it over

If someone has already edited cards, they feel ownership.
Deleting that work is like deleting a draft doc.

⸻

The cost-control reassurance (important for you)

You are not paying twice.
	•	Preview pipeline = cheap, capped, no media gen
	•	Full pipeline only runs once, after login + intent

This is why preview promotion exists.

⸻

One sentence you can give Replit

On login or upgrade, the user’s guest preview (identified by previewId) should be promoted to a full authenticated transformation, with all cards and edits preserved and loaded into the TransformationsPage, so the user continues exactly where they left off.

⸻

If you want, next we can:
	•	Define the exact preview schema vs full schema
	•	Decide what gets locked at “Short” tier
	•	Or write the upgrade copy that explains this in human language without sounding technical